---
layout: post
title: Education Technology Companies
subtitle: Coursera, Duolingo, Kahoot, Khan,  Academy, Schoology, Udemy
tags: [education, tech]
---

There are many successful ed tech (education technology) companies that have developed innovative products and services to support education and learning. Some examples of successful ed tech companies include:

Coursera: A platform that offers online courses, certificates, and degrees from top universities and educational institutions around the world.

Duolingo: A language learning platform that offers interactive lessons and exercises to help individuals learn new languages.

Kahoot!: A platform that allows teachers to create interactive quizzes and games to engage students in the classroom.

Khan Academy: A nonprofit organization that provides free online educational resources, including video lessons and exercises, to support learning in a variety of subjects.

Schoology: A learning management system (LMS) that allows teachers to create and manage online classrooms, assign and grade assignments, and communicate with students and parents.

Udemy: A platform that offers a wide range of online courses and tutorials on a variety of topics, including business, technology, and personal development.

These are just a few examples of successful ed tech companies. The education technology industry is rapidly evolving, and there are many other innovative companies that are working to support education and learning in new and creative ways.